website/integrations: owncloud: document (#12540)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/services/owncloud/index.md

---
title: Integrate with ownCloud
sidebar_label: ownCloud
---

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is ownCloud

> ownCloud is a free and open-source software project for content collaboration and sharing and syncing of files.
>
> -- https://owncloud.com

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `owncloud.company` is the FQDN of the ownCloud installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::info
This guide focuses on deploying ownCloud installations using Docker. If you deployed ownCloud using a different mechanism, there might be some differences in the process. Furthermore, these instructions use the [official OIDC plugin](https://github.com/owncloud/openidconnect). Advanced configuration details can be found in the [ownCloud admin manual](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html).
:::

## authentik configuration

To support all ownCloud applications, multiple application/provider pairs are required—one each for the Web UI, Desktop application, Android application, and iOS application.

> The configuration for each application is nearly identical, except for the **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and the **Redirect URI**, which are [predefined](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-ids-secrets-and-redirect-uris) by ownCloud for the Desktop, Android, and iOS applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration for each application is nearly identical, except for the **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and the **Redirect URI** values, which are [predefined](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-ids-secrets-and-redirect-uris) by ownCloud for the Desktop, Android, and iOS applications.
```

---
title: Integrate with ownCloud
sidebar_label: ownCloud
---

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is ownCloud

> ownCloud is a free and open-source software project for content collaboration and sharing and syncing of files.
>
> -- https://owncloud.com

> :::note

Reviewer: Let's remove that whole note... it belongs with the other note, and fits fine down in the Preparation section.

This guide focuses on ownCloud installations that are deployed using Docker. If you deployed ownCloud using a different mechanism, there might be some differences in the process.
:::

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `owncloud.company` is the FQDN of the ownCloud installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::info

> This guide focuses on setting up ownCloud using the [official OIDC plugin](https://github.com/owncloud/openidconnect). Advanced configuration details can be found in the [ownCloud admin manual](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide focuses on ownCloud installations that are deployed using Docker. If you deployed ownCloud using a different mechanism, there might be some differences in the process. Furthermore, these instructions use the [official OIDC plugin](https://github.com/owncloud/openidconnect). Advanced configuration details can be found in the [ownCloud admin manual](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html).
```

> This guide will focus on setting up ownCloud using the [official OIDC plugin](https://github.com/owncloud/openidconnect). Advanced configuration details can be found in the [ownCloud admin manual](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide focuses on setting up ownCloud using the [official OIDC plugin](https://github.com/owncloud/openidconnect). Advanced configuration details can be found in the [ownCloud admin manual](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html).
```

:::

## authentik configuration

To support all ownCloud applications, multiple application/provider pairs are required—one each for the Web UI, Desktop application, Android application, and iOS application.

The configuration for each application is nearly identical, except for the **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and the **Redirect URI**, which are [predefined](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-ids-secrets-and-redirect-uris) by ownCloud for the Desktop, Android, and iOS applications.

### Create applications/providers

> Follow these steps to create the required application/provider pairs. You will need to repeat the process four times: once for the Desktop application, once for the Web UI, once for the Android application, and once for the iOS application.

Reviewer: I prefer not repeating "once" so many times.. would suggest "You will need to repeat the process four times: once each for the Desktop application, the Web UI, the Android application, and the iOS application."

But up to you!

1. In the Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** > **Applications**.

> 2. Use the new application wizard to create the application and provider, with the following settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use the wizard to create the application and provider, with the following settings:
```

    - **Application**: Provide a descriptive name (e.g., `owncloud`, `owncloud-desktop`, `owncloud-android`, `owncloud-ios`), an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
    - **Choose a Provider type**: Select **OAuth2/OpenID Provider** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: Provide a name (the default name will suffice for most users), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations. The settings for each of the four application/provider pairs are shown below:

        - **Protocol settings:**

>           **Web UI:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          
          **Web UI:**
```

Reviewer: The deploy preview shows the "Web UI" smashed up against "Protocol settings". A empty line between should fix it but please verify.

            - **Client Secret**: Use the predefined value found in the [ownCloud admin manual](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-secret).
            - **Redirect URI**:
                - Strict: `oc://ios.owncloud.com`

        - **Advanced protocol settings:**
            - **Scopes**: Select the following scopes for each of the four application/provider pairs: `email`, `offline_access`, `openid`, `profile`.

    - **Configure Bindings** (optional): To manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page, you can optionally create a [binding](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) between the application and a specific policy, group, or user. Keep in mind that if you do not specify any bindings, all users will have access to the application. For more information about user access, refer to our documentation about [authorization](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps#policy-driven-authorization) and [hiding an application](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps#hide-applications).

> ### Service discovery

Reviewer: Is there a more descriptive title? Also... can we specify that it is is the reverse proxy is configured within authentik? Should that be one of the regular steps in the "authentik configuration" section?

Reviewer: One *can* configure a reverse proxy within authentik (@BeryJu ??), but if for sure this one is not configured there, then let's leave as is.

To allow ownCloud applications to log in via OIDC, your reverse proxy must be configured to rewrite `https://owncloud.company/.well-known/openid-configuration` to `https://owncloud.company/index.php/apps/openidconnect/config`.

Refer to the [ownCloud Admin Manual](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#set-up-service-discovery) for an example configuration using [Apache HTTPD](https://httpd.apache.org/).

For other reverse proxies, consult the provider-specific documentation for guidance on implementing this rewrite rule.

## ownCloud Configuration

To enable OIDC functionality in ownCloud, follow these steps:

> 1. **Navigate to the Market**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Marketplace**:
```

Reviewer: If I can google correctly, Market is the app used to access Marketplace... so I think we want to say Marketplace here. ?

    - Access the Market by visiting:  
      `https://owncloud.company/apps/market/#/`  
      or by clicking the **Hamburger Menu** in the top-left corner of any page in your ownCloud deployment and selecting **Market**.
    - Search for and enable the **OIDC plugin**.

2. **OIDC Plugin Configuration**:
   The OIDC plugin cannot be configured via the ownCloud UI. Configuration must be performed either:

    - Through the `config.php` file, or
    - By storing the configuration in the ownCloud database.

> 

Reviewer: That's a kinda unconventional way to show two choices, but the bullet points are good and make it easy to see the two.

I'd suggest this though really we don't need the "OR":

```
The OIDC plugin cannot be configured via the ownCloud UI. Configuration must be performed either:

    - by editing the `config.php` file
    OR
    - by storing the configuration in the ownCloud database
```

    The location of the `config.php` file depends on your deployment method. Consult the setup guide for your chosen deployment method to identify the file’s location within your installation.

>     :::note

Reviewer: Why indented?

Reviewer: yeah, lets not indent. it hurts my brain. :-)

This guide focuses on ownCloud installations that are deployed using Docker. If you deployed ownCloud using a different mechanism, there might be some differences in the process.
:::

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `owncloud.company` is the FQDN of the ownCloud install.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik install.

:::info
This guide will focus on setting up ownCloud using the [official OIDC plugin](https://github.com/owncloud/openidconnect). Advanced configuration details can be found in the [ownCloud admin manual](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html).
:::

## authentik Configuration

To support all ownCloud applications, multiple provider/application pairs are required—one each for the Web UI, Desktop application, Android application, and iOS application.

The configuration for each application is nearly identical, except for the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**, which are [predefined](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-ids-secrets-and-redirect-uris) by ownCloud for the Desktop, Android, and iOS applications.

> Follow these steps to configure authentik:

Reviewer: Wheee you do have an eye for detail. ;-) I think each of your instincts/points is valid, please do make those changes. 
Two things, though:

- On the 4 diff apps, maybe: "[…] four times, once each for the Desktop application, the Web UI, […]".  So just using "once each" at the beginning...
- Sorry for any confusion about the formatting, but let's use this: "In the Admin interface, navigate to **blah balh**. So let's not bold the "Admin interface", and use lowercase interface.

---
title: Integrate with ownCloud
sidebar_label: ownCloud
---

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is ownCloud

> ownCloud is a free and open-source software project for content collaboration and sharing and syncing of files.
>
> -- https://owncloud.com

:::note

> This guide focuses on ownCloud installations that are deployed using Docker. If you have deployed it using a different mechanism, there may be some differences in the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide focuses on ownCloud installations that are deployed using Docker. If you deployed ownCloud using a different mechanism, there might be some differences in the process.
```

Reviewer: just in case you're curious about the edits, in technical writing you try to avoid using "it" and we use "might" to indicate chance... "may" is used to indicate permission. ;-)

- [OAuth2](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/user_oauth2.html)
- [OpenID Connect](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html)

This guide will focus on OpenID Connect (OIDC).

### OpenID Connect (OIDC)

OIDC is supported in ownCloud through the use of the official [OIDC plugin](https://github.com/owncloud/openidconnect).

## authentik configuration

Ensure that you have a Signing Key available in authentik for use with these providers. Create one if necessary under **System > Certificates**.

Multiple provider/application pairs are required to support all ownCloud applications, one for each of the: Web UI, Desktop application, Android application and iOS application.
The configuration for each one is nearly identical, except that the Client ID and Client Secret are
[pre-defined](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-ids-secrets-and-redirect-uris) by ownCloud for the Desktop, Android, and iOS applications.
You are free to use the autogenerated Client ID and Secret for the Web UI (or any other appropriate ID/Secret pair).

> Create an application and a provider with the following settings for each of the ownCloud applications you wish to support:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an application and a provider for each of the ownCloud applications you wish to support.
```

> ### Create a provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create an application and provider
```

> In the authentik Admin Interface, go to **Applications -> Providers**. Create an **OAuth2/OpenID Provider** with the following parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log into authentik as an admin, navigate to **Applications --> Applications** and click **Create with Wizard**.

In the **New application** wizard, define the application details and then the provider type and settings. 

#### Application

```

Reviewer: Since we are using the wizard, the Application comes first, so you'll need to move all of the content from below to be up here. Then do the Provider section.

        - Client Secret: use the pre-defined values from [ownCloud](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-secret)
        - Redirect URI:
            ```
            http://localhost:\d+
            http://127.0.0.1:\d+
            ```
- Android Application:
    - Protocol Settings:
        - Client ID: use the pre-defined values from [ownCloud](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-id)
        - Client Secret: use the pre-defined values from [ownCloud](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-secret)
        - Redirect URI: `oc://android.owncloud.com`
- iOS Application:
    - Protocol Settings:
        - Client ID: use the pre-defined values from [ownCloud](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-id)
        - Client Secret: use the pre-defined values from [ownCloud](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#client-secret)
        - Redirect URI: `oc://ios.owncloud.com`

##### Applications

> #### ownCloud

Reviewer: Is this header neaded?

In the authentik Admin Interface, go to **Applications -> Applications**, and create a new Application with the following settings for each of the providers defined above:

- Name: owncloud, owncloud-desktop, owncloud-android, or owncloud-ios
- Slug: same as name
- Provider: one of the providers you created in the previous section
- UI Settings:
    - Launch URL: You can set this to `blank://blank` to prevent the application from being listed on the authentik
      home page. This may be useful for the desktop, android and ios applications, since you will not be able
      to navigate directly to those applications.
      :::note
      Sometimes this field glitches out when creating the application, you may need to save the application and then
      edit it to fill this field.
      :::

##### Service Discovery

> In order for the ownCloud Applications to be able to login via OIDC, your reverse proxy will have to be configured to rewrite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for the ownCloud Applications to be able to login via OIDC, you need to configure your reverse proxy to rewrite
```

Reviewer: ideally, we would say "... configure your reverse proxy to rewrite the <??> file/setting/parm from:"

In other words, where is this setting? What file?

`https://owncloud.company/.well-known/openid-configuration`

to

`https://owncloud.company/index.php/apps/openidconnect/config`

The ownCloud [documentation](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration/user/oidc/oidc.html#set-up-service-discovery) includes an example for accomplishing this with Apache.

In Traefik, use the [replacepathregex](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/middlewares/http/replacepathregex/) middleware to accomplish the same thing.
When using Traefik in docker-compose as your reverse proxy, add the following labels to your container. See examples in the docs linked above to accomplish this for other Traefik configurations.

```yaml
labels:
  ... # other labels for this service/router
  traefik.http.routers.owncloud.middlewares: owncloud-oidc-rewrite
  traefik.http.middlewares.owncloud-oidc-rewrite.replacepathregex.regex: ^/\.well-known/openid-configuration
  traefik.http.middlewares.owncloud-oidc-rewrite.replacepathregex.replacement: /index.php/apps/openidconnect/config
```

> ##### ownCloud OIDC Plugin

Reviewer: Is this a required step, or optional, or just info about this plug-in? If a required step, let's make the header title more task-specific, like "Install and configure the ownCloud OIDC Plugin" or some such.
